12 June 2020 Ms Stella Tembisa Ndabeni-Abrahams  the  Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies invites the public to nominate persons for appointment as non-executive members of the Board of the South African Post Office SOC Ltd, in terms of section 11(1)(a) of the South African Post Office SOC Ltd Act no. 22 of 2011 as amended. The members of the Board will be appointed in their personal capacity and serve on a part-time basis for a period not exceeding three years (subject to annual performance assessment).  Allowances will be in accordance with the guidelines approved by the Minister for the remuneration of the SAPO Board. The nominees, must be people who have experience and expertise in any of the following – In addition to the requirements of the Act, members of the Board should also have significant experience in finance, planning, and corporate governance, ideally of Public entities . The nominees must: possess an undergraduate qualification (bachelor's degree or advanced diploma). business experience and a minimum of 10 years’ experience at Executive Management/ Senior level in a complex business environment . Board experience at large corporations, companies or entities. Nominations should be submitted to the Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies by no later than 26 June 2020. Nominees must be South African citizens and will be required to disclose a financial interest in line with section 10 of the Act. Successful candidates must submit themselves to verification of qualification and security clearance. Relevant curricula vitae for nominated candidates, including the following information, should be provided: Identity number; gender; race; current designation and responsibilities; contact details (postal and email addresses, and telephone and fax numbers); qualifications and field; current and past service on boards; areas of expertise; and the names and contact details of two referees. Confirmation of the availability of the nominee is also required. Nomination must be submitted through a Nomination Form downloadable from the Department’s website link. Nominations may be sent to the Director-General: Communications and Digital Technologies, for attention Mr. Michael Ntshingila via e-mail to: nedappointmentsapo@dtps.gov.za NB: Nominations will not be considered unless all the requirements set out above are met. Correspondence will be entered into with shortlisted candidates only. SAPO Board nomination form: https://www.doc.gov.za/sites/default/files/docs/SAPO%20Board%20Nomination%20Form.pdf